Aeons ago, this world flourished with untold flora and fauna; tall beasts, both scaled and feathered fought each other among great ferns and tremendous plants, while our ancestors skulked as vermin beneath their feet. Then came the calamity; it came. The stars, those damnably cold and uncaring stars, unleashed upon this realm a hideous burning mass. Lighting the sky with a furious crimson, it struck. The ground broke, the seas boiled, the very sky itself was a conflagration of destruction and woe. Grand forests burned from horizon to horizon; creatures boiled until not even their bones remained; a massive, circular scar was pounded into the rock of the land.

Yet this was not all. This was only the beginning. For that which plunged from dark abysses to hurtle into the face of the earth was once a creature, an abhorrent being. Upon its terrible impact, this incongruous god from the far reaches of cosmic blackness was slain. It is known that the destruction of a god is a corrupting incursion upon the very fabric of nature, and the concussive death of this great being began a wave of agony and contamination which expanded across the ancient world.

This twitching, blistering mass began to release a black miasma across the world. This blackness spread through the land and water as rapidly as through the air itself, encasing the world in darkness. Years it lasted, choking and tainting the denizens of the world that came before; the massive scaled creatures crying out in despair as their bodies began to crumble and blacken; the grand trees and beautiful leafed vines were wiped from the world.
Even those of far greater and more ancient knowledge than humans began to fall to the ever-present miasma. The Great Race, with their undeniable mastery of past and future and time itself, had found themselves unable to predict this reckoning. Their cities began to crumble, their bodies began to blacken and die. The healthiest and strongest of them fled. They sent their very minds to fly through space and time leaving their bodies to whither and crumble. How ironic that our forefathers, the pathetic rodents and furred beasts cowering and devouring their own spawn for sustenance, were able to survive while the cosmic minds from Yith fled in terror.

After years of horrid blackness, the sickening miasma ebbed. Crawling from hidden caves and out from under rocks came what was left of the precursors of humanity. Green began again to grow upwards toward the light, life began to spread on the surface of this fragile world. The Calamity had seemed to have passed. Yet the body of that great old one remained. The thing that had come down from the stars was dead; the corpse of the dead god was rotting.

While our feeble, cowardly ancestors learned to climb trees, the thing’s purification attracted others. As flies are drawn to a bloated, rotting body, so were many terrible things drawn to this land. Some unknown fetor brings long-forgotten scavengers up from the bowels of the earth and from far reaches of the sky’s void. Even as those of the before-humanity grew to walk upright, still the putrification continued. The dreaded [insert name], those long limbed [insert name], and myriad ageless creatures came to stalk the earth to find and feed upon the source of the fetor.

Humanity spread, building pointless settlements, and proclaiming that they owned the very land they stood on. Slowly they advanced, with their fire and their axes, ignorant to the dreaming horror beneath the Pacific Ocean. Ignorant to the mindless piping of the dancers of the boundless sultan at the Center of All. Ignorant to the festering corruption that had brought such a Calamity as had never been seen on the face of the Earth. Over the course of thousands of generations, a rare few of the pitiful humans became aware. Isolated tribes preformed blasphemous rituals; mad prophets glimpsed shattered visions of the Truth.

Millennia ago, an ancient priestess Chimalmat was born from a town within the great circular scar from the Calamity. Through hellish incantations and dark pacts, she learned much. It was she who first told of Xulub, the daemon who came screaming from the stars, whose body lies unfathomably deep beneath the sea at the center of the massive crater. She told of Xulub’s corpse, deep crimson with holes eaten away in its flesh that form titanic chasms wherein lurk foul and loathsome creatures. She told of the Pronoks, great spiraled, spined protrusions jutting out from the body of Xulub, and the Pronoks were spreading to the ground as well as under the waves.

As the village grew bolder, they began to hold sacrifices to the great old ones. The Yucatán region was rife with midnight chants and ritual bloodletting. The small village was known as Chicxulub, Ch’ik for flea and Xulub for demon-horns, for they realized they were but fleas when compared to the immensity of those from the stars. The area with circular scar from Xulub’s horrendous Calamaty was known as Chac Xulub Chen, the well of great horns, because these large spiked Pronoks could be found within rocky circumference of the crater. Observant ones found the longer any person stayed in the vicinity of a Pronok, the more fearsome they became. It was said that those who spent too long near the great spiraled horns stretching to the sky would find their blood run thick, black and viscous as their minds became unstable. Tales were told of people tainted by the great spires who would rip out the throats of their companions, lovers, even children, while laughing loathsomely.
